My experience in structural ordering in glasses and amorphous media is particularly relevant to the topic of APERIODIC. Glassy materials present various forms of local order, contributing to the characteristic slow dynamics of supercooled liquids and glasses. Such local order, in systems such as metallic glasses, is characterised by five-fold symmetric motifs, leading to short and medium-range icosahedral features. These geometries are intimately linked to the units of quasicrystal formation. However, in glasses, these are fluctuating and localized, with their growth limited by the mechanisms of geometric frustration. Various theories of the origin of the glass transitions exist and are in fierce competition: my work has brought forward a framework to unify the dynamical and structural pictures of the glass transitions, where the metastability of glassy configurations rich in icosahedral motifs can be quantified and lead to genuine nonequilibrium phase transitions.

In this submission, I present an interactive visualisation https://two-worlds-6894690abbd3.herokuapp.com/ of the results of my investigation of a glass-forming liquid on a curved manifold. Five-fold symmetric motifs do not tile Euclidean space but can tile spheres. In this case, I show that a liquid on the surface of a 4D sphere spontaneously forms icosahedral motifs in higher or lower numbers depending on temperature and curvature. We see that for sufficiently high curvatures and low temperatures, a crystal of icosahedral is possible. These results have been discussed in detail in Turci et al PRL 118, 215501 (2017), DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.215501 .

